# Installing Ubuntu on Razer Blade

This documentation explains how to install the Ubuntu Desktop onto Razer Blade laptop. it also can be referenced for other brand and type of PC.

## Preparations
Before starting the process of installing Ubuntu, please read the [Ubuntu Installation Guide](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/installation-guide/amd64/index.html) and take care to the important contents such as :

* [Preparing a USB stick using a hybrid CD or DVD image](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/installation-guide/amd64/ch04s03.html)
* [Pre-Partitioning for Multi-Boot Systems](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/installation-guide/amd64/ch03s05.html)
  * [Systems with UEFI firmware](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/installation-guide/amd64/ch03s06.html)
* [Partitioning for Ubuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/installation-guide/amd64/apc.html)

And then **Download the [ISO image](https://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop)**.

### Making a USB boot stick using a ISO image
Copy the ISO image directly to the USB stick, shouldn't to its mount point. In here, the Linux host was assumed.

```shell
cp debian.ios /dev/sdX
sync
```
That is a little longer process. Where the 'X' in `/dev/sdX` is a storage devices identify that is generated by your Linux host.

> **IMPORTANT**: This process will destroys any existed data on USB stick, be careful to do data backup.

### Testing Compatibility

I strongly recommend you test the compatibility of current version of Ubuntu on your laptop. Insert the USB boot stick into your laptop and reboot your laptop. during power on, press `F12` enter the boot menu, and select `UEFI: Generic Flash Disk 8.07` . 

While the optional entries appears to you, select `Try Ubuntu without installing` and press `Enter`, then the `Debian installer` will run Live Ubuntu on your laptop. Now you can test several function of the laptop, such as touch screen, sound, connectivities and etc.

> Shutdown the laptop. After the Ubuntu on the USB stick has quited, It doesn't turnoff power directly, and in the QHD+ screen you may not read the notice massage. at that moment just press any key in order to turn off.

You can get the [compatibility testing result and some trouble shooting for Razer Blade](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RazerBlade) from Ubuntu community.

### Shrinking Space of Windows Partition

Usually, Windows 10 installer will fully uses space of disk that was remained by recovery and UEFI partitions. Run the below command to launch the **Windows Disk Manager** , you can use the search bar in *startup menu* to find and run it:

```shell
diskmgmt.msc
```

Once you open the Windows Disk Manager, right click the System Partition and select the 'shrink partition', re-plan the layout of partitions and leave enough free space for Linux.

> A recommended scheme for Windows partitions that has two partition which one for system and another for data. As the result of the layout, while you want to recovery Windows from any trouble, then only system partition will be formated. The space of Windows system partition recommend larger than 100 gigabyte.

### Disable Windows "fast startup" Feature

Read the section of [Disabling the Windows 8 “fast boot” feature](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/installation-guide/amd64/ch03s06.html#UEFI) for the reason of disable Windows fast boot feature.

Enabling or disabling this feature is quite easy and if we count the numbers, you just need 4-5 steps to do this. Just follow the below listed procedure.

- Open your **Control Panel**. Look for Control Panel in start menu.
- Now in **Control Panel **look for P**ower Options.**
- Look for an option that reads **Choose what the power button does** and click it. This will open up a new Window and here you can see more options.
- Now look for the check box with text **Turn on fast startup.**
- Check it if you want Fast startup enabled and uncheck it if you don’t want it enabled.

This is as easy as this. So, you just have to follow these options in order to **Enable or Disable Fast Startup in Windows 10.**

## Ubuntu Installation

Reboot the laptop, and press `F12` to enter `Debian installer`. Follow the installation guide to the forth dialog name 'Installation type' of installer, we may select the "Some else" radio button. It's where you have to decide your disk partition scheme that depends on the machine using for, learn more [Ubuntu partition scheme](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/installation-guide/amd64/apc.html).

My disk partition scheme was:

```/ 
/boot        1		G
swap        16		G
/            80		G
/home        80		G
/ws          120	G
```

You have to configure the mount points and apply the changes to disk, and click 'continue' to finish installation.

### Enter a New Installation

After all, the laptop has became a dual system machine. Reboot the laptop and select a system you want to enter.

## Trouble shooting

Problem 1 : In my dual system, in the first time that the laptop come back from Ubuntu from Windows, the sound system don't work. 

Solution 1 :  Shutdown the laptop and power on again that resolve this issue.